Variables: are named containers that hold many diferent types of data, which can then be used later on. For example a variable is similar to giving a name to something which currently there is no name for, this way you can identify it, and use it's name in a sentence or a speech. In this way when we call a variable by it's name in a program, which translates to: show me what is inside this variable, and then the program shows us the content. Without variables we cannot refference unknown items, objects, and results.

Strings: strings are a type of data, they are not used for mathematical calculations, strings are not logical and can be any character or combination of characters as long as they are inside quotation marks "" or ''. For example a name inside quotation marks 'Name' is a string, the same can be said for a number inside quotation marks '10', once we put the characters inside the quotation marks it becomes a string, and we can no longer do math calculations with it, unless we convert it.

Functions (arguments, return): Functions are a set of instructions that can be performed at any time by calling it by the function's speciffic name. For example taking out the trash can be a function named trashTakeOut(), which when someone asks you to take out the trash, you then ask when? and based on the answer given you go and pick the trash bags up and take them outside, then return back inside the house and let someone know that it is done. The function trashTakeOut () can take 1 argument called "when" that goes inside paranthesis and this argument relates to when someone wants the trash to be taken out, then we would tell the program in this manner takeTrashOut(now). The return value of a function can be something like this: if the trash has already been taken out then it would "return" true, and "return" false if we have not done it yet.

if statements: require some kind of variable to talk about, an if statement is the same as if we would look at a flower, in this case the flower would be the variable, and then asked questions about this flower, this questions can have answers that are either true or false. For example we can ask, is the flower's color blue?, is the flower small?, is the flower pretty?, all and based on the answers we would do something about it, for example. if the flower's color is blue, we can say oooh!, and if the flower is small, we can then water the flower, and if the flower is pretty, we can then pluc it and show it to someone. The purpose of asking questions in the if statements is to be able to do something based on the answers we get.

Boolean values (true, false): boolean values are used for very simple decisions, like if you look at an item and ask, is it a book? then there can only be two possible answers to that question, yes or no, and in this case yes translates to: true; it is a book!, and no translates to: false; it is not a book, it must be something else!.

